A master limited partnership (MLP) is a limited partnership that is publicly traded on a securities exchange. It
combines the tax benefits of a limited partnership with the liquidity of publicly traded securities.

MLPs are limited by United States federal law to only apply to enterprises that engage in certain businesses, mostly
pertaining to the use of natural resources, such as petroleum and natural gas extraction and transportation. To qualify
for MLP status, a partnership must generate at least 90 percent of its income from what the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) deems "qualifying" sources. For many MLPs, these include all manner of activities related to the production,
processing and transportation of oil, natural gas and coal.[1]

Some real estate enterprises qualify for a similar tax treatment as a Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT). Other
publicly traded partnerships, such as Blackstone Group or Cedar Fair, do not qualify for pass-thru tax status and must
pay federal corporate income taxes.

MLPs pay their investors through quarterly required distributions, the amount of which is stated in the contract
between the limited partners (the investors) and the general partner (the managers). Typically, the higher the
quarterly distributions paid to limited partners, the higher the management fee paid to the general partner. This
provides the general partner with an incentive to maximize distributions through pursuing income-accretive acquisitions
and organic growth projects.[citation needed] Failure to pay the quarterly required distributions may constitute an
event of default.

Because MLPs are classified as partnerships, they avoid corporate income tax at both state and federal levels.
Additionally, limited partners may also record a pro-rated share of the MLP's depreciation on their own tax forms to
reduce liability.[citation needed] This is the primary benefit of MLPs and gives MLPs relatively cheap funding.

The tax implications of MLPs for individual investors are complex. While distributions from MLPs are taxed at the
marginal rate of the limited partner, there may be no tax advantage to claiming the pro-rated share of the MLP's
depreciation when the investment is held in a tax deferred account.[citation needed] To encourage tax-exempt investors,
some MLPs set up corporation holding companies of limited partner claims which can issue common equity.

A general partner in an MLP often begins with a small stake of about 2% in the partnership, but is given incentive
distributions from net income after the quarterly required distributions.[citation needed] Since these distributions
are usually paid in the form of increased equity claims, the general partner may attain an increased share of the
partnership's ownership.